[Music]
right now trillions of chemical
reactions are humming away in the cells
of your body you never feel them but
without these reactions you wouldn't be
alive unfortunately each of those
reactions need some help
you see most molecules are stable
they're happy just the way they are the
atoms in them are all bound up and
friendly with one another and we prefer
to stay that way problem is for a
chemical reaction to happen the atoms
that make up those stable molecules need
to break away from their friends and go
buddy up with another atom this breakup
is where the molecules need a hand
this initial kickstart is known as
activation energy so used to destabilize
the molecule to push the bonds between
the atoms to a place where they are
ready to break this unstable state is
known as as a molecules transition state
once a transition state has been
achieved the atoms become willing to
leave their current molecular friends
and go make new friends elsewhere once
they're convinced it's a piece of cake
bonds break atoms rearrange and the rest
of the reaction happens automatically
after that first push the body doesn't
need to put in any more energy to help
the reaction along left alone most of
these reactions would be very slow
because it takes quite a while to build
up the activation energy the molecules
need to get started into the enzyme
enzymes are proteins that speed up or
catalyze reactions by lowering the
activation energy they make it easier
for the molecule also known as a
substrate to get to the transition state
you can think of reaction like a race
some racers are running alone while
others have teammates to help them meet
Sam the substrate his team is the bomb
squad together his team is able to get
to the finish faster using less energy
there are four special enzymes in Sam's
team each has a different strategy for
lowering the energy it takes to get
going and speeding up the pace to get
the mods to the finish line the M stands
for micro environment this enzyme
creates a tiny special environment for
the substrate resulting in a faster
reaction time he runs ahead of the pack
flattening out bumps in the road and
misting cool water on his team of
molecules oh is for orientation
sometimes two molecules must be
positioned just right before they will
react
like a friend at the finish line the Oh
enzyme provides his molecules with
specially shaped spaces that allow the
substrates to interact in just the right
way D stands for direct participation
every now and again a little muscle is
needed and when his teammates are
struggling to finish the race teammate D
is there to pick them up and carry them
over the line
finally S is for straightening bonds
this guy pushes the team through some
serious flexibility exercises splits
lunges back bends the works sometimes
the substrate teammates just need to be
stressed and flexed into their
transition state so that's it
remember that all reactions need energy
to get going this energy is known as the
activation energy enzymes lower that
activation energy and speed the reaction
through team mods microenvironment
orientation direct participation and
straining bonds